all right let's do this excited to be
here uh before we jump in huge shout out
and thank you to the team at zaster uh
Jason and Amelia and Caitlyn and
everyone else that there's a lot of
effort that goes into these incredible
conferences and they just keep getting
bigger and better each each time and
each year so uh delighted to be here and
happy to share the stage with my close
friend Jameson as uh the introduction
alluded to my name is Sam blonde I'm
currently a partner at ERS fund most
recently I was cro at brex I was there
for a little over four years um my
attire I think matches the VC Jameson is
an SVP of sales with that uh fancy
looking sales leader jacket on uh we
we're close friends and Jameson now SVP
sales at gong so uh happy to have you
here for now the second time around on
this cro confidential podcast series
we'll jump right how much thought I put
into what I was going to wear today
you'd feel really bad about that comment
you just made you just represent the
sales leader with the jacket all right
um so we're today going to talk about uh
the five things that we can do to get
back to growing and hitting Revenue
targets uh the goal here is we want to
be really specific with five things that
you can do and then we also want to be
very tactical with how to accomplish
those five things before we jump in
we're going to do a bit of context
setting with where where are we um so uh
the the first two sort of seem obvious
we had a party this was 2020 and 2021
where everything was crazy valuations
growth uh spending money uh and more we
had a hangover which was probably 2022
and maybe the first half of this year I
think what's less obvious or less talked
about is where we are today which is
this concept of returning to normal uh
and I'm seeing this a number of data
points in the portfolio investing is
coming back public markets have returned
and so given this context we wanted to
spend today's time talking about the
things that you can do to start getting
back to hitting Revenue targets is this
uh in line with sort of what you've
experienced at gong and any thoughts
there yeah yeah 100% I mean I think the
last time we sat down together was uh
December of last year which was like
kind of right in the middle of The
Hangover uh and I mean we've certainly
seen significant amount of rebound and I
think we can kind of see it across the
you know our company as well as Piet
awesome okay so given this context let's
Jump Right In number one thing that we
can to get back to hitting Revenue
targets all right the days of work life
balance are over um and the emphasis
here is uh on work life with little work
and big life and sort of mapping back to
the previous slide there is this period
of time that was um sort of the party
where people were a people in sales
specifically but I think more broadly
within the company were able to uh make
twice as much money and work half as
hard and this was when everyone went
remote people were working from the
beaches of Cabo and life was good uh
companies were growing and so it didn't
really matter if you were working half
as hard I think during this hangover
phase um one thing happened and one
thing uh didn't change the one thing
that changed was people stopped making
as much money especially on the sales
side so if we think about sort of mid
2022 to uh early 2023 people weren't
making as much money on the the quota
and compensation side but they were
still working half as hard uh and so the
reality is startups are really hard
Jameson um just pressure test if uh this
resonates with you and then more
specifically we'll get into how do we
get back to working hard I mean yeah I
think 100% right like we went we there
was I mean last time we spoke right
about six months ago we were talking a
lot about right now it's hard right now
the macroeconomics f is tough your
buyers changed and you need to focus on
the inputs you need to focus on you know
uh making sure people feel like they're
accomplishing something even though the
revenue might not be there and I think
that's changed significantly right
suddenly now we're back to looking the
expectation is revenue it's not just are
you trying your hardest it's are you
trying your hardest and is it actually
working out and turning into the numbers
we needed to and I don't think that was
the case six months ago and and are you
how do you approach the the sort of
expectation setting or tracking of
effort I mean I'm a Gong so I'm kind of
unique in the sense that we have a lot
of visibility right I you can you know
how much activity people are doing on a
daily basis you have a general sense of
that type of thing um but but I think
some of it's just like the expectation
you said a the minute they walk in the
door every single onboarding class I
worry about right the fact that when we
were hiring when we were 50 people it
was easy to hire people that wanted to
fight it was easy to hire people that
wanted to push and when you start to get
a little bit bigger and people start to
recognize your name you might attract a
different set of talent and so I think
early it's about from day one you know
setting the right level of expectation
and I think even now resetting
expectation uh you know we we were in a
world where we were starting to measure
effort we were stopping re measuring
Revenue we're not getting back to that
other world I think you need to tell
your team that you need to set
expectations of you know how much
they're supposed to be in the office how
much activity you expect them to do uh
it's on you if you don't tell them right
you can't expect people to change their
behavior without you telling them you're
expecting them to Yeah couple things
come to mind um one is that uh
historically this like concept of
micromanagement measuring how hard
people were working in an in office
environment you just did that
organically uh it was obvious who was
coming into the office early it was
obvious who was leaving the office late
it was obvious what people were doing
when they were in the office uh if they
were at the ping pong table or if they
were at their desk um and in this remote
environment uh that what I'll call
Advantage um has has sort of dissipated
or disappeared um the two things that
come to mind on how I approach this
topic number one is is just expectation
setting and and reinforcement uh
expectation setting from as early as the
very first interviews this job isn't for
everyone we are a technology startup and
in order to be as successful as we
expect we're going to be it's going to
require a lot of hard work and what that
means is for many people pretty long
hours and so if that isn't something
that you're able to do or isn't
something that you're looking for this
just might not be the right fed and then
I continue to reinforce that throughout
everyone's tenure with within the
company we talk about what people can do
to progress their careers within the
environment and we talk about
performance being of course extremely
important but they're also things like
effort and attitude because teams are
going to emulate the things that they
see in their leaders and if folks aren't
working hard if they're not being
positive then their teams will sort of
emulate that type of behavior so again
it's like expectation setting constant
reinforcement and then the second thing
that comes to mind is when I am managing
someone um I often times will just sort
of categorize them based off of their
performance and if there are people that
are performing below average and sales
in particular is very objective you can
see the leaderboard and the folks sort
of definitionally that are below 50%
they are performing below average
they're on the bottom half of the team I
want to understand and they should want
to understand why they are there um and
so I'll just go a layer deeper with
trying to diagnose what are the things
that the people that are performing
doing that you might not be doing and it
often times will fall into one of two
buckets it's either there's not the
effort being put forth or there are very
specific tactical things you are putting
forth the effort but there are some
areas of improvement that we can work on
well it's really a quadrant right I mean
it's like you've got a grid and you've
got the folks that are you know doing a
bunch and it's working really well and
those are your top performers and the
people that are at 200% of their number
or whatever they're at you've got people
that are doing a bunch and it's not
working out and they're the ones you
invest in in to try to make it so that
that activity is turning into something
real and then there's folks that are you
know it's working out but they're doing
very little and if you can get them to
do a little bit more right you set
expectations of you know what is
reasonable as far as the amount of work
you're supposed to be doing you can get
them in the high performer bucket and
then there's a bunch of folks in the
bottom left that aren't doing the work
and it's not working out and then it's
time for a tough conversation yeah
that's right I think as you described it
that fourth quadrant which is
underperforming and not putting in the
effort for for me this is like a
one-time conversation
and if things don't change there then
it's not the not the right place I think
that one time conversation changes by
company like some people are doing do
coaching plans or performance plans
right with the intention not trying to
get somebody out but to to be like hey
look this is what we have to do this is
the timeline we have to do it and do you
want to do it or not and it's amazing
how much you see somebody's Behavior
change I mean I think most people wish
they didn't you didn't uh need that like
kicking the ass right but sometimes
people do and sometimes people change
drastically and we've had some top
performers that were on a plan at one
point and now they're at the top of the
sale sales board and they just needed
that push all right um so number one
thing that we can start doing today uh
startups are hard we need to get back to
working hard similar to the you know
2010 to 2020 days where it required a
lot of effort to build a really big
business um the next thing I've talked a
little bit about this in a a I think
Workshop Wednesday is what they call it
at saster um and it's this concept of
diagnosing the bottleneck to growing
faster in fixing it and what I mean here
is if you think about the customer
acquisition funnel and you have the very
top of the funnel the middle of the
funnel and then the bottom of the funnel
there is um likely a constraint to
growing faster um and it's often times
diagnosed or misdiagnosed as the middle
of the funnel or the bottom of the
funnel and a good example of what I mean
by this is you know we're early
September if I talked to a founder or a
sales leader about how they performed in
August you know finished at 90% of the
number um okay well like what happened
why didn't we get to 100% well there's
like a deal or two that pushed and it
had that deal or two closed we at you
know 110 120% of our number and so most
folks sort of gravitate to or diagnose
the bottleneck to growing faster being
the middle or the bottom of the funnel
that they aren't converting deals and in
four out of five um instances uh the
real diagnosis is that it's actually the
top of the funnel yeah I mean that those
two swing deals should be bringing you
to your best case right not bringing you
to your number ideally well yeah I think
um you know if one or two deals pushed I
I think in a perfect world you actually
have four or five deals and you only
really need to close one of them in
order to hit your number um and so
there's uh let's let's get into sort of
like how to address this but thinking
about this conceptually you have this
customer funnel um and then what you
want to do is you want to look at your
employee resources so so where do the
people map to that customer funnel you
want to think about where is the uh the
focus and so again if you diagnose the
problem as top of the funnel which I
would suggest four out of five companies
that is the problem if you then map your
employees and where your focus is what I
often times see is more people are
focused on the middle and bottom of the
funnel and so these resources aren't
mapping to where the bottleneck is so um
before I get into uh some ideas on
solution just see if that resonates for
you and sort of how you approach this I
mean I think that's definitely the case
right I I think a lot of people over
hired over the last you know couple of
years and it's if somewhat right sized
but oftentimes Dem manag G still not
keeping up with the size of their sales
team uh and if you just look at you know
how many sales people they have versus
how many marketing people they have
there how many CS folks they have you'll
see it weighted uh away from pipe gen
and so you can either start to hire
people into those roles or you can start
to shift the focus of your existing
roles to care a lot more about pip gen
makes sense I think um so just
conceptually I think the process that
you want to go through um now and and
maybe on a monthly or quarterly basis is
trying to diagnose the bottleneck to
growing faster if it is top of the
funnel apply pressure there both in the
terms of resources so people and also
Focus until you fix it and it moves
somewhere else and then celebrate that
and do the same process all over well
and I think the people one's obvious
right I think the one of like okay hire
more people to do it I think the one
that's less obvious is like how do you
get your existing people to pay
attention to another point of the funnel
right like how do you get your CS F
folks to to pay attention to pipe gen
right referrals or you know csls is what
we call them or csq qls excuse me but
like you can take your existing
resources that are a different part of
the business and get them focused with
we talk about incentives later but uh
with the right incentives with the right
just Spirit of their job and helping
them understand where their problem is
where you need their help it doesn't
have to be hiring more people or or
different people that's right so let's
let's go one layer deeper on this uh
demand gen example and then we're
actually going to talk about some
specific uh types of campaigns within
demand gen but um if the if you diagnose
the bottle as we need more opportunities
that that is the biggest bottleneck to
growing faster um you have this existing
team some folks are obvious that they
are focused on this problem it's going
to be marketing and it's going to be
your sdrs the next thing you want to do
is you want to look at your AES and are
these AES focused on sourcing and
generating their own opportunities if
they aren't you need to start
encouraging and emphasizing that it even
goes further down the funnel where if
you have folks that are servicing your
customers you can actually incentivize
and create some Focus for them to start
generating additional Demand by things
like uh customer referrals um and so you
can have everyone that exists within the
goto market organization focusing a bit
on fixing this bottleneck regardless of
where they sort of sit uh in the
customer funnel I also think the earlier
you are in your company the more it is
important to it's really hard to make a
sales team that's not used to doing any
kind of outbound or prospecting start to
do it suddenly right so the earlier you
can instill that in the team that that
is something you're going to need to do
whether you need it or not right even if
like in the world of zenefits we were
overloaded with pipeline but the minute
we started running out of pipeline right
and we hit another bottleneck it was
really hard to make that pivot and I
think in retrospect I'm like man I wish
we would have at least had us do
something early on so it wasn't
completely foreign Behavior yeah I think
um early on establishing some rigor
around uh sales folks doing outbound is
uh uh universally applicable and just
controlling your own pipeline right so
all right let's keep going so um just
continuing along this talk track
diagnosing the bottleneck oftentimes the
bottleneck being at the top of the
funnel um let's talk about some demandin
things that have been effective uh that
we've seen in in different uh uh uh
roles that we've been in so this the
slide here it just talks about this
concept of getting creative and standing
out and
um every time that I have experienced a
uh campaign or a channel that has
heavily influenced demand genin it has
been through this concept of like
thinking outside the box being creative
and standing out uh and I'll give
several examples but um before I I go
into mine I want to see if this
conceptually resonates with you and then
if you have any examples uh at gong or
otherwise that come to mind of specific
things that you have done or being
creative standing out from a demion
standpoint maybe folks can uh make it
their own yeah I mean I think uh like we
live in a world now where it is so easy
to send messages to people I've got like
probably 47,000 on red emails all of
them are like how you know hope you're
well and then asking me for 15 minutes
of my time uh and I me I it's they're
sent faster than I can delete uh and so
I you're just you're just in you know
you're in the noise it feels like you're
doing something you're running on you're
running but you're not going anywhere
right it's like I'm going to send more
I'm going to send more I'm going to send
more it just doesn't work whereas you
know a guy sent me a coconut in the mail
a week ago showed up at my house uh
trying to get an interview and he had
like this pun about you know you're nuts
if you don't talk to me I forget what it
was but something like that uh and of
course the guy gets a phone call right
and I mean I think that's what it's all
about it's like how do you look
different than everybody else and like
you can keep spending more and more and
more energy doing things that have a 3%
reply rate but it's just it's just not
going to help you yeah I think you you
nailed what I'm trying to get which is
there are these uh status quo or
conventional tactics to generate demand
the the most popular one that you just
described is you buy a email sequencing
tool you buy a tool that uh provides you
some contact information you have a CRM
you just start blasting the universe
with some you know five email sequence
that uh
99.9% of the time goes directly in you
know the the archive inbox or whatever
so Direct Mail campaigns something we do
ourselves and it works really really
well like we've been consistently doing
them every time we do them we get a
significant boost right I mean we change
the idea every time but it's it is
something that is that is continuously
working for us and and I think I mean
it's not like everything you do can be
direct mail right you still need to do
something through email you need do
something through Linkedin but I think
it's about thinking about the edge that
makes you stand out when you're doing
that I mean at gong we have data that
people don't have access to so you can
start to tell people things about their
own business or about other businesses
that are interesting so suddenly yeah
maybe you're resorting to to a a medium
that they're used to but you look
different so yeah I think maybe maybe
tactically the way that I would approach
this is um just because this scenario
that I just described the way most
people do outbound it doesn't mean that
outbound doesn't work it means outbound
the conventional way isn't super
effective and I think you can apply that
to um most uh demandin strategies that
can be an event strategy that can be
your outbound strategy that can be your
customer marketing strategy I'll give a
couple examples um and you know I
regularly do saster talk so I don't want
to repeat over and over again what they
are but the outbound one um brex sort of
famously did a champagne campaign where
we were sending bottles of champagne as
part of outbound crazy high reply rates
with that um when most folks were going
paid online advertising brex did paid
offline advertising um we had a
geographically concentrated uh customer
Market it was San Francisco we bought
all the Billboards in San Francisco and
then we were really targeted with who we
were sending outbound emails to because
the folks that would walk past those
Billboards had a much higher probability
of replying to our outbound than
somebody in New York who had never heard
of the business um I'm going to give one
more example um I'm on the board at
ripling uh the conventional thing to do
with like LinkedIn paid advertising is
you just pay LinkedIn and they surface
an ad based off of some ICP that you
want to surface the add to and ripling
does this really creative strategy where
um when you are onboarded by one of
their customers so part of their product
is onboarding and when a new hire goes
through this onboarding process ripling
sends them an NPS survey anybody that
marks that survey a nine or a 10 they
follow up with an email saying we we're
delighted that you had a great
experience if you're willing to post
about it on LinkedIn we will send you a
$25 gift card as a thank you just use
hash rling # sponsored and so there are
hundreds if not thousands of these
LinkedIn posts that are sort of organic
from new hire employees talking about
this awesome experience that they had
onboarding on ripling well that one's
cool because it's a Nuance that ripling
has where they're reaching a specific
person right during an onboarding
program so it's like thinking about what
do you have That's Unique against
everybody else that's around you and how
do you leverage it yeah I think you know
they they probably did this process
which I'd recommend for everyone it's
like um online paid advertising makes
sense how can we do online paid
advertising that is different from the
status quo and will be really effective
and in their case they have when these
people do um I join this new company
there are hundreds of likes because you
think about when you see somebody that
posts about congratulations all this
engagement in that $25 from this What's
um seemingly an organic post from uh you
know new hire that's a far more
effective $25 than you're ever going to
get by paying LinkedIn directly $25 to
surfice and add to your ICP um and so uh
these stories aren't meant to be uh
things that you just mimic directly
don't send everybody bottles of
champagne don't buy Billboards it
wouldn't work if we all do it that's the
problem honestly so then it becomes
unconventional but but do try and find
something that is differentiated
contrarian however you want to approach
it get creative think outside the box
and uh uh and you have to change it
every quarter or every two quarters
right because the minute it starts
working you know it's going to stop
working so that's right um great let's
let's continue along here um so
relationships matter this is another one
that Maps back to the initial framing
slide a bit in that um sort of when mid
2020 happened and uh everybody went
remote uh this thing also happened where
visiting customers in person went to
zero uh you weren't going to meet
prospects in person to try and sell to
them you weren't going to meet customers
in person you know before they're
renewal to try and develop a
relationship with them um but it does
seem to sort of not return to the way
that it used to have been historically
and so uh the the sort of framing here
is relationships matter much like the
last slide you can almost Stand Out by
returning doing something you used to do
right all the time I mean for us we we a
lot of our deals we close with Pilots we
give people the products for a little
while it used to be if over a certain
size we would always go visit customers
and we just stopped doing it and we
brought it back you know since kind of
CO's all calmed down I mean our win
rates night and day different and it's
just us doing something that we used to
do which simple but and I almost think
it goes back to the first slide which is
like it's a lot of work to get on a
plane and go somewhere for two days and
people are used to working in their own
office so it's it's it's a mindset shift
but if you do it well I mean the
conversion rates are insane yeah a
couple things come to mind here uh when
we measured conversion rates at brex by
whether or not we visited the customer
in person and I think we had like 15 to
20% conversion rates um that was sort of
the norm where we didn't visit a
customer and when we visited a customer
they 3x so they went like 45 to 60%
depending on uh where where they sort of
originally started um applies to
customers applies to prospects and I
think the other thing is like if they
don't want to meet you then you've got
you know you've got a massive red flag
in your deal right it's like it's like
an early warning size whether it's a
renewal whether it's whatever like that
tells you something in itself so even
the act of doing it whether you get out
there or not is going to tell you
something yeah so uh visit your
prospects for deal sizes that are large
enough visit your customers uh and you
will see uh renewal rates and increases
improve in the customers that you visit
the one other thing that I'll flag um
you you talked about uh the coconut
thing which made me uh think of
something so I I try and help startups
pretty regularly whether it's with um
recruiting a new hire send them an AE
send them a VP of sales whatever it is
um or just take a call and provide some
advice and um the the sort of Norm
standard I I almost always get an email
that's like you know thank you so much
really appreciate the referral or or the
advice uh whatever the thing might be I
can remember very specifically when I
received um thank yous that were the
non-standard outside just the sort of of
like email thank you somebody maybe sent
me a bottle bottle of wine somebody sent
me a a handwritten thank you note you're
just trying to get presence right now is
that what's going on you got it um but
genuinely like it it's happened um maybe
on on one one or two hands like the
number of times that I have received a
thank you handwritten note a thank you
you know bottle of wine whatever it is
and um it it just so positively
reinforces that behavior I want to help
the people that go outside of their way
with with that type of a gesture and so
applying that to businesses if you see
someone that uh posts positively about
your company on LinkedIn or Twitter um
send them a handwritten thank you note
you can even automate this process but
like send them a thank you don't send
them a thank thank you email because
they get thank you emails all the time
send them a handwritten thank you note
and that will uh uh encourage more of
that type of behavior somebody sends you
a customer referral rein force that
behavior by doing something different um
than a thank you email uh and it's all
like you know back to this concept of
relationships mattering jumping back to
the onsite thing we were just talking
about I think the number one thing you'd
hear from your team the minute you go
back to them and you're like hey like
get in front of customers get in front
of customers you're going to hear them
say something like well no one's in an
office or they're all a remote company
and they're you know the exact I need to
meet with are in five different places
how do you imagine handling that well I
think uh it it depends on the scenario
um but for many folks that are remote if
you think about a a a deal and let's say
it's a big deal Enterprise deal there
are several stakeholders you sort of map
out which different stakeholder fits
which profile so maybe you've got a
champion decision maker there's somebody
that you have the closest relationship
with as part of this evaluation they
live somewhere um and you can reach out
to this regardless of whether you're
meeting them in an office with everybody
else that's evaluating this product you
can suggest hey like would love to spend
more time meet you in person take you to
dinner um are you around in the next
couple weeks I'll I'll fly to Chicago
would love to take you to dinner that's
how I would approach uh the the sort of
Incycle um or Prospect type scenario the
crazy part is is we all used to be doing
this and now yeah it's just kind of shut
off but anyway yeah and to your point if
if the person is reluctant to do that I
think it's a sign that like you you
actually might be behind in the deal so
you're still learning
100% all right um let's continue along I
think that this is the fifth of five uh
uh tactical things that you can do to
get back to hitting Revenue targets um
so I'll frame this when I think about
the two most impactful things that I
have uh done at brecks at zenefits at at
companies that I've been at companies
that I've sort of advised for and worked
with um the the the top two number one
is influenced demand gen or top of the
funnel this concept of if we're able to
double leads going into next month and
everything else remains constant we have
just doubled sales um that's a lot
easier to do than something like
doubling conversion rates through a more
sophisticated Discovery process or
whatever you approach it with the second
thing is around getting incentives
correct um and this can be both internal
incentives uh for employees can also be
external incentives for customers um but
would love to hear what comes to mind uh
when you hear this and then I have some
examples as well yeah I mean I think you
said the first thing that comes to mind
which is I think that many of you say
incentive I think people think salese
and you're right incentive for
salespeople very important but
incentivization across the entire
business is is where I'd be focusing you
know you can incentivize customers there
are things that cost your customers
nothing case studies referrals Etc and
tying those to the things that they want
right discounts Etc so I mean thinking
about kind of every interaction you're
having and how do you make sure you're
incentivizing the behavior that you want
to come out of it we talked about C S as
well right incentivizing CS to help with
referrals um so there's there's things
that cost nothing to somebody else but
mean a lot to you and how do you
identify those and make them part of the
process yeah I I'm um I agree totally on
customer incentives we we were at zenitz
together we had a really successful
customer referral program um and it was
successful entirely because of the
incentive there were uh customers that
we had marked in our CRM as like red
with high risk of turning and they were
referring customers because the
incentive program was correct um so I I
won't even describe what it was because
it's not one siiz fits-all but that's an
example of the type of thing that an
incentive uh uh correct incentive can
drive Behavior I'll take the sort of
like internal angle on this one um there
are a couple that come to mind uh at
brecks for AES we started incentivizing
People based off of logo acquisition we
wanted to increase market share we
wanted a a specific specific market
share of startup customers that were on
brex and we believed that customers
would organically migrate their card
spend um once they had been approved and
activated on brex and in practice that
didn't happen and so we had a bunch of
customers that were activating and not
enough folks that were migrating their
card spend and generating Revenue so we
switched the incentive to uh basically
Top Line um just Revenue uh cards spend
and what that did was people started
migrating their cards Bend much faster
like lo and behold sort of makes sense
magic um there was a negative
consequence which was uh brex provides a
rebate on card spend and we allowed reps
to go up to a certain threshold and
again lo and behold basically everybody
went right up to the threshold which
hurt the gross margins uh of the revenue
and we then changed it again to a gross
profit uh based incentive and again like
uh discounts or not discounts which is
effectively discount but rebate started
coming way down and gross profit started
coming way up I mean I think you're
hitting on something else here right
which is like this isn't like you said
it and then forget it and then come back
right this is a constantly changing
thing right if like your renewal rates
are significantly higher when Auto renew
is still on the contract then
incentivize that to happen right like
but look at the things that are in your
business are going the wrong direction
figure out how you how you shift
incentive to make everybody care about
it the way that you care about it and I
think the one that is um almost
universally applicable because what I
just described was sort of a very bre
spefic specific incentive where
interchange is the revenue and there's a
rebate but um there is as as you um have
employees focused more on the top of the
funnel and so this can be marketing this
can be
SDR um playing with incentives there I
have seen have huge returns and I think
most folks default to sort of an input
metric to like meetings or something
like that or right so Str strs often
times are going to be something like uh
number of sales qualified opportunities
marketing folks often times are going to
be mqls or sqls or some like pipeline
some Metric that is a precursor to
revenue um when I have toyed with those
um the the result oftentimes is what I
actually want to drive towards and so
for SDR if you actually do want more
meetings I if you believe that you have
and there's a point in time right at the
very beginning of gong we just wanted to
talk to anybody it was like let's just
get you on the phone you have no idea
what we do this category doesn't exist
yet like great like let's talk uh and
but obviously as the as the company has
changed and scaled we have a much more
specific person we want to talk to and
and we don't just want to talk to
somebody right we want to close Revenue
so that's right I I think uh you know
maybe referencing back to the beginning
of this slide where if you are very top
of funnel constrained you actually do
want more meetings and you're not
hyperfocused on the quality um or
conversion rates of those meetings it
actually may make sense to incentivize
sdrs top of the funnel folks on
generating meetings because that's the
outcome that you want um as companies
mature the experience that I had at brex
in the experience that I'm having in
some portfolio companies is that if you
incentivize Revenue um which is sort of
uh meetings that ultimately convert to
being customers the result is more
Revenue um more times than not well
you're tying them to the thing that you
care about at the end of the day right
like I mean I think the hard part though
is and I'm curious how you you handle
this which is uh when you have a really
long sales cycle and you you don't give
you know uh sdrs immediate gratification
to that Revenue right do you think it
still drives the right Behavior well
look I I think like many things it's not
one siiz fits-all and you're right in
that the longer sales cycle I think the
more you want to incentivize something
that is either like meetings or or
reaching a certain stage within the
pipeline got to make sure it's a clear
stage right because all you end up doing
otherwise you start putting pressure on
your AES to bring it to some random
stage that they may or may not care
about right so like did they start a
pilot did they start it has to be very
clear if it hit or didn't hit or you're
just creating a bunch of internal
friction in the business that's right
and you can also do a combination um so
you can say you know some percentage of
quota is on sales qualified opportunity
some percentage of quota is on actual
Revenue um I I do like simpler is
generally better uh but um I remember
just going back to the the um change
that we made here which was specifically
changing sdrs from a sales qualified
opportunity quota in commission plan to
a revenue-based quota in commission plan
the the conversations that we were
having were okay but like the SDR
doesn't have control over the meeting
once it's in the ae's hands and so what
happens if the SDR is paired with a less
good AE and they are sort of penalized
from the AE that doesn't convert them
there was the like time to gratification
thing where it was you know if they set
up a meeting and it closes 60 Days Later
they're not even like remember that
meeting that they set up and the way
that we approach the decision which is
the way that I I actually approach most
decisions is first and foremost we're
going to do what we believe will
generate the most revenue for the
business and there may be sort of second
order consequences to that decision like
the ones that I just described the crazy
part is if you think about the second
order consequences they're all actually
good for you right so like if the SDR
wants the meeting to go to the rep
that's more likely to close it like
that's just going to funnel more leads
to your best performers and so yes you
don't want that to happen you still want
it to be even but even if they are
trying to like twist the system it
actually still twist the system in your
favor entirely possible I I think um uh
just just sort of um we in and we made
this change a couple things happened we
made this change that we we expected
especially from the SDR leader we
expected a lot of like blowback around
this change for the reasons that we
mentioned and what happened in practice
was SDR St generating way more Revenue
the average um the ACV of an SDR
generated customer went 3x um about 30
days after we made the change um and so
the productivity of sdrs the efficiency
like every metric just improved
dramatically and SDR started making a
bunch more money because the bestr made
a bunch more money too which is the best
part about the whole thing right you
didn't have a bunch of people that were
making meetings that didn't go anywhere
wasting the entire business's time
unintentionally so a bunch of time on
this uh uh specific example but I think
it um helps reinforce the broader topic
which is show me the incentive I'll show
you the outcome and James to your point
um these these these should evolve over
time and so I don't know the the exact
right Cadence whether it's like once a
quarter but like every once in a while
you should just sort of um make sure
that your incentives are designed
correctly around the business outcome
you are looking to drive at that point
in time well I think it's probably not
once a quarter because I think you can't
change people's comp once a quarter but
I think every six months every annually
at least uh I think you should be
looking at it makes sense all right
quick recap and then we'll jump into Q&A
uh so we wanted to talk about five
things that you can start doing today to
get back to hitting Revenue targets uh
the days of work life balance are over
so um how to incentivize effort uh
within your employee base uh the next
one is around diagnosing the bottleneck
to growing faster and fixing it uh so if
top of the funnel is the constraint to
growth make sure that most of your
resources and focus are on the top of
the funnel um get creative and stand out
this is specific with demand genin uh
have a meeting whiteboard session nine
o'clock at night on a Monday we're
sponsoring saster this year what can we
do to make the most out of this saster
sponsorship that is going to be
different from what every body else is
doing and it's not raffle an iPad it's
not give out like you know that have our
logos uh relationships matter go visit
your customers go visit your prospects
handwritten thank you notes when people
do things that uh are beneficial to your
business and then lastly um show me the
incentive I'll show you the outcome we
just spent a bunch of time on it so
don't need to reinforce it with the
recap uh but incentives really Drive
Behavior both with employees and
customers 100% great thank you so much
for the attending attending the session
Jameson awesome to hang out with you
again take care appreciate
it